Interesting things about Assign

This document is not meant to be a cohesive whole.  Rather a brain
dump of text, thoughts, and information.

	Solutions in assign are measured by two criteria.  The first
	is a measure of basic quality, very similar to the cost
	functions you would find in traditional SA.  The second is a
	measure of validity.  It is an integer recording the number of
	violations, or broken constraints.  By allowing invalid states
	the SA algorithm can traverse non-solution space to find other
	solutions.  Having two separate measures allows find tuning of
	the SA algorithm.  In particular it allows us to control the
	tendency to wander into non-solution space.  A secondary
	advantage is that by tracking the source of each violation it
	is easy to understand the cases where assign fails to find a
	valid solution.

	The basic problem is to map one graph to another.  It is not,
	however, simply a matter of connecting up vnodes and pnodes
	and vlinks and plinks.  Multiple vnodes may map to a single
	pnodes, as is the case with delay nodes.  Links are even more
	complicated.  Certain plinks, such as interswitch trunks, may
	have multiple vlinks mapped to them.  On the other hand, each
	vlink will probably traverse multiple plinks.  It is quite
	often that a vlink will map to multiple plinks, some of which
	have other vlinks mapped to them.  These many-to-one and
	one-to-many relationships complicate scoring and
	understanding.

	Further complications arise from the many criteria that
	solutions are judged by.  How well vnodes and pnodes match,
	the feasibility of emulating vlinks, the "cheapness" of all
	resources used, are some of the basic criteria.  In addition a
	solution is based on how well it satisfies specific requests,
	such as that a node already have the correct disk image
	installed.  The "cheapness" of nods is not straight forward, a
	node with specialized hardware should be more expensive than
	its non specialized counterparts, yet that expense should only
	be considered if the hardware would not be used.  Assign also
	optimizes for node homogeneity, both at a general physical
	level, and according to logical classification of vnodes by
	the user.  All of these criteria have various priorities and
	interact with each other during the algorithm.

	Given the complexity of the scoring and the vast number of
	times the score will be recalculated during a run it is
	infeasible to calculate the score from scratch at each
	modification.  Instead, the change in the score needs to be
	rapidly calculated.

	The two basic operations in assign are mapping a vnode to a
	pnode and unmapping a vnode from its pnode.  At each operation
	the change in score (both quality and violations) is
	calculated and applied.  The change in score is non-trivial
	and highly depends on the state of the other nodes and links.
	Mapping a vnode requires an evaluation of how well it maps to
	the chosen pnode; the choice and evaluation of any links the
	vnode might have that connect to mapped vnodes (vlinks are
	only evaluated when both ends are mapped), possibly involving
	the allocation of one or more switches; the new physical
	homogeneity of pnode usage; and the consistency of any vclass
	the vnode might be in.  All of these need to be evaluated,
	even under conditions in which the current state is invalid.
	For example, mapping a node may require over utilizing a link.
	The score still needs to be updated, and needs be updated to
	reflect the over-utilization (an increase in the number of
	violations).

	The mapping of a vnode and the later unmapping of a vnode will
	not necessarily result in opposite effects on the score (in
	fact, it is very rare that they do so).  For between map and
	unmap a number of other changes have been applied, each of
	which depended on the fact the vnode was mapped.  Unmapping
	the vnode needs to reflect those dependencies and modify the
	score and state appropriately.  As an example, a vnode may be
	mapped, and later on one of its neighbors mapped.  Mapping
	that neighbor in will cause the link between them to be
	evaluated.  When the original node is unmapped the effect of
	that evaluation must be undone. 

	Assign has a detailed resource availability and use model.
	Each pnode has a number of resources along with their values.
	The value reflects the cost of the resource in the case that
	the resource is allocated but unused.  For example, a pnode
	may have specialized hardware.  If that pnode is allocated as
	part of a solution but the vnode will not use that hardware,
	then the cost is included in the score.  Vnodes have resource
	requests along with the cost of having that request
	unfulfilled.  Besides a quality modification, an unfulfilled
	request can, at the users discretion, result in an increase in
	violations.  This basic mechanism of features and desires
	allows a wide range of control over the nature of any
	solution.

	Assign has a notion of physical equivalence classes.  Pnodes
	are grouped together in cases where the choice of either pnode
	will have no effect on the score.  The simulated annealing
	then chooses among pclasses instead of pnodes, dramatically
	reducing the scaling properties.  The idea and tracking a
	pnodes is still very important, as even within a pclass,
	pnodes may differ in the vnodes mapped to them, specifically
	as multiple vnodes can map to a single pnode.  Thus not only
	must assign look at pclasses but also within, at what
	partially full pnodes are available.  By using simulated
	annealing on pclasses and heuristics to choose among the
	members of a pclass, assign finds middle ground between nodes
	and equivalence classes.

	Assign must be able to handle partial solutions specified as
	input.  This is important in cases where users require a
	specific machine for reasons outside the knowledge of assign.
	It also provides opportunities to strongly influence a
	solution.  For example in a distributed testbed, a local node
	could be fixed causing solutions to tend to utilize nearby
	nodes.  Without, the pnodes could very well be on the far end
	of a continent or beyond.

	Often the user will be aware of relations among their vnodes
	that assign does not otherwise have the knowledge to be aware
	of.  For example, a user may put great important on the
	homogeneity of internal nodes vs. leaf nodes, but care little
	as to whether leaf and internal are similar.  Vtypes allows
	the user to specify these relationships to assign.  The
	challenge to assign is to deal with these vnodes that are not
	restricted to a single type but are requested to match in type
	to other vnodes.  The user is allowed to specify the
	importance of the consistency, anywhere from negligible to
	invalidating any solution with inconsistency within a vtype.
	Even in the latter case, however, assign allows for
	inconsistent solutions, keeping track of the violations.

	Before beginning simulated annealing assign performs a number
	of checks and computations to improve performance and avoid
	pathological cases that are obvious to heuristics but not SA.


