Rough steps for upgrading your existing Emulab.

0. "Shutdown" the testbed.  Disable the web interface and prevent user
   logins to "users".  [ We really need a way to stop all Emulab daemons,
   etc. that might be confused by DB changes. ]

1. Look at doc/UPDATING to find out what you have to update in the
   boss/ops FreeBSD environment before updating Emulab software.
   Entries are timestamped, so look for things that have changed since
   the last you installed.

2. Unpack and build the Emulab software.  You should do this in a directory
   accessible to your tipserv, ops and boss nodes (e.g., /users) to make
   the various installs easier.

3. BACKUP YOUR DB.  Do:
	mysqldump tbdb > db.backup

4. Update the DB.  Look at sql/database-migrate.txt which is a list of
   SQL commands to perform. In some cases, it also includes instructions
   regarding operations you need to perform on your data to make it work
   in the new schema.  Diff the version of this file from the last release,
   with the version from this release to find which ones to apply.

   If anything goes wrong with this step, contact us.  You can put back
   the old db:
       mysql
       drop database tbdb;
       create database tbdb;
       quit
       mysql < db.backup
   and bring the testbed back up if necessary.

5. Login to your tipservers (if you have them), cd to your build directory
   and do:
       sudo gmake tipserv-install

6. Login to your ops/users node, cd to your build directory and do:
       sudo gmake ops-install

7. Back on your boss node, cd to your build directory and do:
       sudo gmake boss-install
       sudo gmake post-install

8. Reboot tipservers, ops and boss and make sure things boot up ok.
   Try creating/swapping/modifying/destroying an experiment, look
   for errors.

9. Bring up the web interface and inform users that they should reboot
   their existing experiment nodes if they notice odd behaviors.

Things should be backward compatible so you don't have to update the
standard disk images immediately.  But you will want to do it.  See
update-node.txt for more info about that.

